h1. Hive admin-side theme (Flat Neutral) for Textpattern CMS

You are free to modify this theme, reuse code herein, and distribute all its supporting files as long as licences are respected (see below).

h2. Installation instructions

# Upload the directory 'hive-neutral' into your Textpattern installation -> admin-themes directory.
# Log in to your Textpattern admin area. Navigate to admin -> preferences -> admin.
# Select 'Hive (Flat Neutral)' from the 'Admin-side theme' dropdown list. Save the preferences.

h2. Custom CSS toggles

Options are provided to hide certain sections/fields/features from displaying in the admin pages. To use them simply add any of the rules below to your textpattern -> config.php file, before the closing @?>@ line.

*Hide Textpattern branding:*

@define('hive_theme_hide_branding', true);@

*Hide page headings:*

@define('hive_theme_hide_headings', true);@

*Hide preview tabs group (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_preview_tabs_group', true);@

*Hide text filter group (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_textfilter_group', true);@

*Hide advanced group (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_advanced_group', true);@

*Hide recent articles group (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_recent_articles_group', true);@

*Hide keywords field (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_keywords_field', true);@

*Hide comments group (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_comments_group', true);@

*Hide expires fields (write/edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_expires_field', true);@

*Hide image caption field (image edit page):*

@define('hive_theme_hide_image_caption', true);@
