h1. Contributing

Want to help out in the development of Textpattern CMS? There are plenty of ways to get involved! Please take a moment to review this document in order to make the contribution process easy and effective for everyone.

h2. Who can contribute?

Anyone can contribute. You do not have to ask for permission.

h2. How can I contribute?

h3. Help with translations

To make corrections to existing translations, or to add new ones, "follow these instructions":https://github.com/textpattern/textpacks/blob/master/README.textile.

h3. Contribute code

# Pick an "existing issue":https://github.com/textpattern/textpattern/issues you intend to work on, or "create a new issue":https://github.com/textpattern/textpattern/issues/new if no existing issue matches your topic.
# Fork the repository on GitHub.
# Make a new branch for your work.
# Hack along.
# Push your changes to your fork on GitHub.
# Visit your repository's page on GitHub and click the 'Pull Request' button.
# Label the pull request with a clear title and description.

h3. Write documentation

TODO

h2. License

"GNU General Public License, version 2":https://github.com/textpattern/textpattern/blob/master/LICENSE.txt. By contributing code, you agree to license your additions under the GPLv2 license.

h2. Dependencies

Dependencies are managed using "Composer":http://getcomposer.org. After you have cloned the repository, run @composer install@:

bc. $ composer install

And update before testing and committing:

bc. $ composer update

h2. Coding standard

The project follows the "PSR-0":https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md and "PSR-2":https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide-meta.md standards with PHP 5.2 style namespacing. You can use PHP_CodeSniffer to make sure your additions follow them, too:

bc. $ ./vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=phpcs.xml *.php textpattern

h2. Versioning

The project follows "Semantic Versioning":http://semver.org/ and the @major.minor.patch@ format.

h2. Code of conduct

As contributors and maintainers of this project, and in the interest of fostering an open and welcoming community, we pledge to respect all people who contribute through reporting issues, posting feature requests, updating documentation, submitting pull requests or patches, and other activities.

We are committed to making participation in this project a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of level of experience, gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, personal appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or nationality.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, documentation edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this code of conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviours that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.
