h1. Vagrant Box for Testing and Development

There's a Vagrant box configuration that you can use to spin up a local virtual machine for testing and development.

h2. Default Specs

* CentOS 6 x64
* PHP 5.6
* Mysql 5.6
** User @root@ with password @root@ by default
** Database @databasename@ created by default (as it's named in @textpattern/config-deist.php@)
* "Composer":https://getcomposer.org/
* "Xdebug":https://xdebug.org/
* "Selenuim Server":http://www.seleniumhq.org/ with FireFox for automated browser testing


h2. Requirements

* "Vagrant 1.8.x":https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html
* "VirtualBox 5":https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
* Create a duplicate of @puphpet/config-dist.yaml@ to @puphpet/config.yaml@ and update any information needed

Once both Vagrant and Virtual box are installed you can run @vagrant up@ from the project root.

h2. Notes

* If you are feeling daring you can update the vagrant box config to whatever you need. The online GUI "Puphpet":https://puphpet.com/#frontpage was used to create the base configuration. You can drag and drop the @puphpet/config.yaml@ file onto the Puphpet GUI to change any part of the configuration or just edit the file itself. Any update will require a @vagrant provision@ to be applied.
* You will need to add a entry to your host file to bring up this virtual machine in your browser, by default is @192.168.56.101 textpattern.local@, then you can browse to http://textpattern.local to view your site in the vagrant box.
* You can interact with the Selenium server inside the vagrant box to run automated headless browser tests. More on that coming.