h1. Changelog

Here's a summary of changes in each release. The list doesn't include some small changes or updates to test cases.

h2. "Version 3.7.7 - 2022/05/01":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.7

* Fix deprecation errors that appear on PHP >= 8.1 about preg_split limit argument's NULL value.

h2. "Version 3.7.6 - 2020/01/08":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.6

* Support consecutive links without whitespace between using bracket syntax (closes "#202":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/202, "#205":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/pull/205 and "#206":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/pull/206).

h2. "Version 3.7.5 - 2019/12/16":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.5

* Fix PHP 7.4 compatibility issues (closes "#199":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/199).

h2. "Version 3.7.4 - 2019/12/15":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.4

* Fix issue where an inline tag preceding the last character, that is a glyph, is not rendered if the block tags are disabled with @Parser::setBlockTags@ (closes "#198":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/198).

h2. "Version 3.7.3 - 2019/08/30":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.3

* Fix issues where divider tags placed on their own line within a paragraph, would disable Textile processing for that paragraph block (closes "#194":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/194).

h2. "Version 3.7.2 - 2019/06/08":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.2

* Fix quote and bracket processing around span and other inline tags (closes "#191":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/191 and "#192":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/192).

h2. "Version 3.7.1 - 2019/01/26":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.1

* Fix and omit anchor links prefixing (closes "#190":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/190).
* Alignment attribute can be specified last within a block tag definition (closes "#189":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/190)

h2. "Version 3.7.0 - 2018/12/15":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.7.0

* Fix problems with list parsing; no longer matches inline-syntax, such as strongs, as list item markers (closes "#172":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/172).
* Add option to disable specific substitution symbols by setting them to FALSE (see "#158":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/158).
* Add option to apply classes, such as language-identifiers, to the code element within a @bc@ (closes "#96":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/96).
* Add @Parser::configure()@, the method can be extended to create pre-configured parser classes.
* Automatic paragraph wrapping now checks the contents and does not wrap paragraphs already wrapped in non-phrasing HTML tags (closes "#22":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/22 and "#63":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/63).
* Add option to disable Textile formatting for blocks wrapped in non-standard HTML-like tags.
* Check for starting list depth (closes "#24":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/24).
* Add @Parser::setImagePrefix()@, @Parser::setLinkPrefix()@, @Parser::getImagePrefix()@ and @Parser::getLinkPrefix()@ (closes "#169":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/169).
* Add @Parser::setRawBlocks()@ and @Parser::isRawBlocksEnabled()@.
* Deprecate @Parser::setRelativeImagePrefix()@ and @Parser::$relativeImagePrefix@ in favour of the new decoupled methods.

h2. "Version 3.6.1 - 2018/10/21":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.6.1

* Fix problems with attribute parsing under PHP >= 7.1 (closes "#175":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/175 and "#176":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/176).
* Fix test suite compatibility issues under PHP >= 7.2 (closes "#184":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/184).
* Fix missing deprecation notices.
* Add test fixture for Unicode characters in image title attributes.
* Tidy entity encoding process (closes "#182":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/182).
* Drop legacy PHP 5.5 and 5.4 unit test targets due to test suite's depedencies' requirements.

h2. "Version 3.6.0 - 2016/11/17":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.6.0

* Fix empty-like link texts (closes "#141":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/141).
* Fix empty-like RedCloth definitions (closes "#142":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/142).
* Fix empty-like table summaries (closes "#143":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/143).
* Fix image dimension generation on Windows when doc_root can not be resolved (closes "#140":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/140).
* Fix HTTP protocol restrictions not affecting images (closes "#144":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/144).
* Add more versatile parsing method, @Parser::parse()@.
* Add @Parser::setRestricted()@ and @Parser::isRestrictedModeEnabled()@.
* Add @Parser::setLite()@ and @Parser::isLiteModeEnabled()@.
* Add @Parser::setDocumentType()@ and @Parser::getDocumentType()@.
* Add @Parser::setDocumentRootDirectory()@ and @Parser::getDocumentRootDirectory()@.
* Add @Parser::setImages()@ and @Parser::isImageTagEnabled()@.
* Add @Parser::setBlockTags()@ and @Parser::isBlockTagEnabled()@ (closes "#138":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/138).
* Add @Parser::setLinkRelationShip()@ and @Parser::getLinkRelationShip()@.
* Add @Parser::setLineWrap()@ and @Parser::isLineWrapEnabled()@ (closes "#139":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/139).
* Deprecate @Parser::textileThis()@, @Parser::textileRestricted()@ and @Parser::textileCommon()@ in favour of the more versatile @Parser::parse()@.
* Fix: @Parser::relURL()@ now supports unicode characters (closes "#146":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/146).
* Fix: Undefined variable warning.
* Feature/Fix: Allow link text that contains newline characters (closes "#154":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/154, "#155":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/155 & "#167":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/167).
* Fix: Stop encoding '+' characters in tel: links (closes "#156":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/156).
* Make dimension glyph replacements a little stricter.
* Fix: Prevent hyphenated class on td cells adding incorrect style (closes "#164":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/164).
* Jail read of image dimensions to images within the document root path (closes "#145":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/145).
* Various code cleanups, typo corrections and refactoring.
* Documentation fixes and extensions.

h2. "Version 3.5.5 - 2014/01/02":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.5

* Fix rendering of left and right image alignment in non-lite restricted mode (closes "#132":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/132).
* Fix wrong triggered error type when using the deprecated @$encode@ option of @Parser::textileThis()@.
* Fix attribute regular expression to stop it matching multiple times (closes "#131":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/131).
* Fix rendering of lists in table cells with span attributes set (closes "#135":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/135).
* Throws an exception if @Parser::__construct()@ is given invalid document type, instead of eating it silently and returning document using the default content-type you weren't wishing for. Prevents issues where you want HTML5, but silently got XHTML due to typo or an issue in application design.
* Clean user-supplied styles prior to sorting and re-formatting.
* Remove dead code and duplicated procedures as outlined by code coverage reports.
* Remove unused internal method @Parser::fSpecial()@.
* Test code coverage, coding style and run unit tests against "HHVM":http://hhvm.com.
* Footnote reference numbers support unicode characters.
* Use named sub-patterns in regular expressions (closes "#121":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/121).
* Refactored link detection code.

h2. "Version 3.5.4 - 2013/11/06":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.4

* Fix broken image alignment in HTML5 mode (closes "#123":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/123).
* Fix duplicate HTML IDs that occur when a footnote isn't referenced in the content (closes "#125":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/125).
* Don't include image alignment to the URL in restricted mode.
* Detect and process quoted quote symbols.
* New link parser (closes "#86":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/86, "#87":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/87 and "#128":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/128).

h2. "Version 3.5.3 - 2013/10/30":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.3

* Fix double image URL encoding (closes "#102":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/102).
* Fix URL reference token spoofing.
* Fix broken parser output when $strict argument was set to TRUE (closes "#119":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/119).
* Fix memory leaking tag cache. Tag cache is never reset between @textileThis()@ and @textileRestricted()@ calls referencing the same instance.
* Fix rare instances where a link displays a wrong URL mentioned elsewhere in the document.
* Fix invalid markup generated when Redcloth-style definition list is used inside a table cell.
* Link aliases follow same allowed URL schemes as normal links.
* Update @hasRawText()@ and @fPBr()@ to detect a wider range of raw HTML and XHTML.
* Unify attribute order with Redcloth.
* Reduce list and blockquote indentation level to match paragraphs and other block tags.
* Restrict how spans are parsed (closes "#106":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/106).
* Fix citations on spans (closes "#120":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/120).
* Refactor @parseAttribsToArray()@ slightly.

h2. "Version 3.5.2 - 2013/10/25":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.2

* Improved support for Redcloth-style definition lists.
*# Allow multiple terms
*# Allow linebreaks in terms
* Fix incorrectly rendered @rel@ attributes (closes "#103":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/103).
* Fix @getSymbol()@ so it actually returns the named symbol (closes "#104":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/104).
* Fix unicode link aliases that were broken on some PCRE_UTF8 supporting systems.
* Fix collapsing whitespace and preserve newlines. Preserves whitespace inside long @bc@, @notextile@ and @pre@ blocks, rather than collapsing two or more empty lines down to one. Renders whitespace as it was defined, rather than using hard-coded single LF to separate lines (closes "#109":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/109 and "#111":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/pull/111).
* Fix the number of code tags rendered inside long code blocks (closes "#116":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/116).
* Fix token spoofing from the document body by randomizing token references (closes "#115":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/115).
* Add image dimensions to images even when Textile is run on command line. On CLI, images are looked from the current working directory.
* Define internal class properties as protected rather than at all, causing them to be created as public.
* Move internal property definitions from the constructor to class definition.
* Added runnable PHPUnit tests, integration with "Travis CI":https://travis-ci.org/.
* Removed error suppression, the code doesn't intentionally produce notices.
* Add @br@ tags to headings instead of leaving linebreaks untouched.

h2. "Version 3.5.1 - 2013/01/01":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.1

* Remove horizontal alignment from inline elements (closes "#66":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/66).
* Reinstate automatic generation of image width and height generation for relative images (closes "#101":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/101).
* Add @setDimensionlessImages()@ and @getDimensionlessImages()@ to suppress width and height generation for relative images and better support content for responsive layouts (closes "#100":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/101).
* Allow "." in class attributes (closes "#97":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/97).

h2. "Version 3.5.0 - 2012/12/12":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v3.5.0

* Add composer.json to allow installation via the "Composer PHP package manager":https://getcomposer.org/.
* Regular expression improvements (issues "#78":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/78, "#81":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/81 and "#83":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/83).
* Allow pre-encoded @>@ and @<@ as alignments.
* Self-referencing links can now be combined with link aliases. eg. @"$":alias1@ is now possible.
* Fix memory leak and performance degradation when calling same Textile object multiple times.
* Do not double-encode @+@ or @%@ in urls.
* Remove legacy SVN lines and old Textpattern integration methods.
* Refactored code, removing deprecated methods.
* Fix undefined variable in Redcloth-style definition lists.
* Improvements to image handling (closes "#69":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/69).
* Extend recognition of dimension sign to more complex cases. Eg...
*# @-0.5 x -.1 x +100@ => %-0.5 × -.1 × +100%
*# @10 x -€ 110,00@ => %10 × -€ 110,00% (this replacement is available only if unicode support is included in your PCRE implementation and any character that is a currency symbol should work)
* Change parse tokens to further prevent glyphs from matching them internally.
* Improve handling of textile within table cells without leading or trailing spaces (eg. @|"$":https://github.com"|_Here we are_|==code==|@ etc).
* Improve handling of lists within table cells. (closes "#79":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/79)
* Allow mixed nested lists (Already supported in Redcloth).
* Improve detection of open quotes in situations like @["(Berk). Hilton"]@ (where the open quote was previously was incorrectly detected encoded).
* Fix a problem with links followed by ':', ';' or '?' like @Do you like "cheese":/cheese?@ where the '?' becomes part of the href rather than a '?' at the end of the sentence. This happens on platforms where PCRE has unicode support.
* Removal of leading \t from generated paragraphs & better indentation of generated lists in the HTML (closes "#90":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/90).
* New method @textileEncode()@. This is preferred to calling @textileThis()@ with the $encode flag.
* "PSR-0, PSR-1 & PSR-2":https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/tree/master/accepted conformity added.
*# Split class Textile into classes @Parser@, @DataBag@ & @Tag@ and moved them into @src/textile/php-textile@ directory for PSR-0.
*# Unified method names & coding styles according to PSR-1 & PSR-2.
*# Switched from using defines to explicit set methods; @setSymbol()@ & @setRelativeImagePrefix()@.
*# Added visibility controls to all properties and methods.
* Dropped textile's PHP4 heritage and moved over to using a @__construct()@ method.

h2. "Version 2.4.1 - 2012/08/23":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.1

* Add @sftp@, @callto@, @tel@ and @file@ schemes to the URI whitelist in unrestricted mode.
* Support international format @tel@ URIs via linkrefs (link aliases).
* Extend linkrefs to all available URI schemes in unrestricted mode.
* Reverted looser matching of list-like structures as it introduced problems in block-level elements that
  can legitimately have literals or other non-lists in them that are similar to textile's lists.
  See issue "#65"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/65 for some examples.
* Fixed "#61"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/61 which caused strong numeric strings at the start of a line to be turned into lists.
* Reverted auto-breaking in table cells as it introduced "#71"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/71 (breaking lists within table cells).
* Fixed "#67"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/67 which ran textile within table cells through the glyph routine twice.

h2. "Version 2.4.0 - 2012/05/07":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.4.0

* Conditionally use utf8 in span regex pattern. Closes "#53"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/53.
* Small code cleanups
* Convert \n to @<br/>@ inside table rows.
* Added HTML comment block handling.
* Added ability to control the start attribute and continuation of ordered lists.
* Adds basic Redcloth-style definition list support.
* Add ability to customise footnote refs and anchors.
* Add https protocol to linkrefs.
* Add unicode support for linkref urls.
* Added redcloth style list continuation.
* Loosen recognition of notedefs and notelists.
* Better recognition of lists adjoined to previous text. (This was reverted in 2.4.1 as it caused issues inside block elements like bc. or bq).
* Bugfix: allow apostrophe between ) and a word character.
* Allow notelist refs to be customised.

h2. "Version 2.3.2 - 2012/03/20":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.3.2

* Allow multiple classes in block attributes.
* Improve handling of (classA classB#Bad id) blocks.
* Add span $tail fix & support for trailing [ in spans.
* Add doctype to textile constructor & use abbr instead of acronym for html5 doctypes.
* HTML5 doctype extends class rather than use invalid align attribute.
* Allow auto-assigned classes to be output in restricted mode.
* Add support for encoding Unicode characters in links.
* Notelists: fix order of @sup@ and @a@. Fixes issue "#20"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/20
* Add simple set of symbols ¤§µ¶†‡•∗∴◊♠♣♥♦ to notelist regex. Requested in "#38"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/38
* Remove attributes from embedded code tag output by bc.
* Simplify en-dash glyph rule -- should fix "#50"::https://github.com/textile/php-textile/issues/50.
* Simplify self-hyperlinked text, remove the scheme for http, https, ftp and mailto link text.

h2. "Version 2.3.0 - 2012/01/10":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.3

* Fix potential DoS in @cleanba()@.
* Fix the issue where class would eat the note label.
* Sanitise image URLs.
* Allow inline span tags to be applied within non-English quotation marks.
* Allow non-English quotation marks inside inline span tags.
* Allow pipe closure of captions.
* Allow missing closing pipe in colgroups.
* Note-style links can use index 0.
* Encode quotes in restricted mode, rather than improperly leaving them as is.
* Improve lang, style, id and class handling.
* Add rel attributes to linked images.
* Center aligned cells aren't treated as captions.
* Removed use of deprecated @split()@ function.
* Disallow unsafe block attributes in restricted mode.

h2. "Version 2.2.0 - 2010/09/22":https://github.com/textile/php-textile/releases/tag/v2.2public

This is our first release forked from "revision 3359":https://code.google.com/p/textpattern/source/detail?r=3359 of "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com. Here are the changes since Textile v2.0.0:

* Allow duplicate notelists with different backref characters.
* Properly render empty table cells.
* Add support for glyphs such as fractions, plus-minus and degrees.
* Optimize glyph encoding setup.
* Optimize style attribute processing.
* Less restrictive paragraph breaking.
* Output cleaner inline styles.
* More restrictive apostrophe encoding and matching.
* Remove horizontal and vertical alignment attributes from list elements.
* Lists can use dot terminator.
* Improved table generation: allow linebreaks in table cells, colgroups, thead, tbody and tfoot elements.
* Add auto-numbered notelists.
* Add Textile comment tag. Comments aren't displayed in the generated markup.
* Add self-links where the URL can be used with the link text (@"$":http://example.com@).
* Allow glyph parsing across tag boundaries.
* Add definition lists.
* Fix duplicate IDs in footnotes.
* Caps span isn't added to acronyms.
